<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1 id='ch17'>CHAPTER XVII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>MR. FOSS MAKES A SUGGESTION</span></h1></div>

<p>Immersed in her beloved script, Adele
Leamington sat on her bed, a box of <i xml:lang="fr">marron
glacé</i> by her side, her knees tucked up, and a
prodigious frown on her forehead. Try as hard
as she would, she found it impossible to concentrate
upon the intricate directions with
which Foss invariably tortured the pages of his
scenarios. Ordinarily she could have mastered
this handicap, but, for some reason or other,
individual thoughts which belonged wholly to
her and had no association with her art came
flowing forth in such volume that the lines
were meaningless and the page, for all the
instruction it gave to her, might as well have
been blank.</p>

<p>What <em</em> Michael Brixan? He was not her
idea of a detective, and why was he staying in
Chichester? Could it be .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. ? She flushed
at the thought and was angry with herself. It
was hardly likely that a man who was engaged
in unravelling a terrible crime would linger for
the sake of being near to her. Was the Head-Hunter,
the murderer, living near Chichester?
She dropped her manuscript to her knees at
the appalling thought.</p>

<p>The voice of her landlady aroused her.</p>

<p>“Will you see Mr. Foss, miss?”</p>

<p>She jumped up from the bed and opened the
door.</p>

<p>“Where is he?”</p>

<p>“I’ve put him in the parlour,” said the
woman, who had grown a little more respectful
of late. Possibly the rise of the extra to
stardom was generally known in that small
town, which took an interest in the fortunes of
its one ewe lamb of a production company.</p>

<p>Lawley Foss was standing by the window,
looking out, when she came into the room.</p>

<p>“Good afternoon, Adele,” he said genially.
(He had never called her by her Christian name
before, even if he had known it.)</p>

<p>“Good afternoon, Mr. Foss,” she said with
a smile. “I’m sorry to hear that you have left
us.”</p>

<p>Foss lifted his shoulders in a gesture of
indifference.</p>

<p>“The scope was a little too limited for my
kind of work,” he said.</p>

<p>He was wondering if Mike had told her about
the disc of paper on her window, and surmised
rightly that he had not. Foss himself did not
attach any significance to the white disc, accepting
Gregory’s explanation, which was that,
liking the girl, he wished to toss some flowers
and a present, by way of a peace offering,
through a window which he guessed would be
open. Foss had thought him a love-sick fool,
and had obliged him. The story that Knebworth
had told he dismissed as sheer melodrama.</p>

<p>“Adele, you’re a foolish little girl to turn
down a man like Gregory Penne,” he said, and
saw by her face that he was on dangerous
ground. “There’s no sense in getting up in
the air; after all, we’re human beings, and it
isn’t unnatural that Penne should have a crush
on you. There’s nothing wrong in that.
Hundreds of girls have dinner with men without
there being anything sinister in it. I’m a
friend of Penne’s, in a way, and I’m seeing
him to-night on a very important and personal
matter—will you come along?”</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>“There may be no harm in it,” she said,
“but there is no pleasure in it either.”</p>

<p>“He’s a rich man and a powerful man,” said
Foss impressively. “He could be of service
to you.”</p>

<p>Again she shook her head.</p>

<p>“I want no other help than my own ability,”
she said. “I nearly said ‘genius,’ but that
would have sounded like conceit. I do not
need the patronage of any rich man. If I cannot
succeed without that, then I am a hopeless
failure and am content to be one!”</p>

<p>Still Foss lingered.</p>

<p>“I think I can manage without you,” he said,
“but I’d have been glad of your co-operation.
He’s crazy about you. If Mendoza knew that,
she’d kill you!”</p>

<p>“Miss Mendoza?” gasped the girl. “But
why? Does she—she know him?”</p>

<p>He nodded.</p>

<p>“Yes: very few people are aware of the
fact. There was a time when he’d have done
anything for her, and she was a wise girl:
she let him help! Mendoza has money to
burn and diamonds enough to fill the Jewel
House.”</p>

<p>Adele listened, horror-stricken, incredulous,
and he hastened to insure himself against
Stella’s wrath.</p>

<p>“You needn’t tell her I told you—this is
in strict confidence. I don’t want to get on
the wrong side of Penne either,” he shivered.
“That man’s a devil!”</p>

<p>Her lips twitched.</p>

<p>“And yet you calmly ask me to dine with
him, and hold out the bait of Miss Mendoza’s
diamonds!”</p>

<p>“I suppose you think she’s awful,” he
sneered.</p>

<p>“I am very sorry for her,” said the girl
quietly, “and I am determined not to be sorry
for myself!”</p>

<p>She opened the door to him in silence, and
in silence he took his departure. After all,
he thought, there was no need for any outside
help. In his breast pocket was a sheet of
manuscript, written on the Head-Hunter’s
typewriter. That ought to be worth thousands
when he made his revelation.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
