<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1 id='ch11'>CHAPTER XI<br/> <span class='sub-head'>THE MARK ON THE WINDOW</span></h1></div>

<p>The Thing was twittering at her, soft, bird-like
noises, and she saw the flash of its white
teeth in the darkness. It was not pulling, it
was simply holding, one hand gripping the
tendrils of the ivy up which it had climbed,
the other hand firmly about her wrist. Again
it twittered and pulled. She drew back, but
she might as well have tried to draw back
from a moving piston rod. A great, hairy
leg was suddenly flung over the sill; the
second hand came up and covered her face.</p>

<p>The sound of her scream was deadened in
the hairy paw, but somebody heard it. From
the ground below came a flash of fire and the
deafening ‘tang!’ of a pistol exploding. A
bullet zipped and crashed amongst the ivy,
striking the brickwork, and she heard the
whirr of the ricochet. Instantly the great
monkey released his hold and dropped down
out of sight. Half swooning, she dropped
upon the window-sill, incapable of movement.
And then she saw a figure come out of the
shadow of the laurel bush, and instantly
recognized the midnight prowler. It was
Michael Brixan.</p>

<p>“Are you hurt?” he asked in a low voice.</p>

<p>She could only shake her head, for speech
was denied her.</p>

<p>“I didn’t hit him, did I?”</p>

<p>With an effort she found a husk of a voice
in her dry throat.</p>

<p>“No, I don’t think so. He dropped.”</p>

<p>Michael had pulled an electric torch from
his pocket and was searching the ground.</p>

<p>“No sign of blood. He was rather difficult
to hit—I was afraid of hurting you, too.”</p>

<p>A window had been thrown up and Jack
Knebworth’s voice bawled into the night.</p>

<p>“What’s the shooting? Is that you,
Brixan?”</p>

<p>“It is I. Come down, and I’ll tell you all
about it.”</p>

<p>The noise did not seem to have aroused Mr.
Longvale, or, for the matter of that, any other
member of the party; and when Knebworth
reached the garden, he found no other audience
than Mike Brixan.</p>

<p>In a few words Michael told him what he
had seen.</p>

<p>“The monkey belongs to friend Penne,”
he said. “I saw it this morning.”</p>

<p>“What do you think—that he was prowling
round and saw the open window?”</p>

<p>Michael shook his head.</p>

<p>“No,” he said quietly, “he came with one
intention and purpose, which was to carry off
your leading lady. That sounds highly
dramatic and improbable, and that is the
opinion I have formed. This ape, I tell you,
is nearly human.”</p>

<p>“But he wouldn’t know the girl. He has
never seen her.”</p>

<p>“He could smell her,” said Mike instantly.
“She lost a pair of gloves at the Towers
to-day, and it’s any odds that they were stolen
by the noble Gregory Penne, so that he might
introduce to Bhag an unfailing scent.”</p>

<p>“I can’t believe it; it is incredible!
Though I’ll admit,” said Jack Knebworth
thoughtfully, “that these big apes do some
amazing things. Did you shoot him?”</p>

<p>“No, sir, I didn’t shoot him, but I can tell
you this, that he’s an animal that’s been
gunned before, or he’d have come for me, in
which case he would have been now fairly
dead.”</p>

<p>“What were you doing round here,
anyway?”</p>

<p>“Just watching out,” said the other carelessly.
“The earnest detective has so many
things on his conscience that he can’t sleep
like ordinary people. Speaking for myself, I
never intended leaving the garden, because I
expected Brer Bhag. Who is that?”</p>

<p>The door opened, and a slim figure,
wrapped in a dressing-gown, came out into the
open.</p>

<p>“Young lady, you’re going to catch a
very fine cold,” warned Knebworth. “What
happened to you?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know.” She was feeling her wrist
tenderly. “I heard something and went to the
window, and then this horrible thing caught
hold of me. What was it, Mr. Brixan?”</p>

<p>“It was nothing more alarming than a
monkey,” said he with affected unconcern.
“I’m sorry you were so scared. I guess the
shooting worried you more?”</p>

<p>“You don’t guess anything of the kind.
You know it didn’t. Oh, it was horrible,
horrible!” She covered her face with her
trembling hands.</p>

<p>Old Jack grunted.</p>

<p>“I think she’s right, too. You owe something
to our friend here, young lady.
Apparently he was expecting this visit and
watched in the garden.”</p>

<p>“You expected it?” she gasped.</p>

<p>“Mr. Knebworth has made rather more of
the part I played than can be justified,” said
Mike. “And if you think that this is a hero’s
natural modesty, you’re mistaken. I did
expect this gentleman, because he’d been seen
in the fields by Mr. Longvale. And you
thought you saw him yourself, didn’t you,
Knebworth?”</p>

<p>Jack nodded.</p>

<p>“In fact, we all saw him,” Mike went on,
“and as I didn’t like the idea of a coming
star (if I may express that pious hope) being
subjected to the annoyance of visiting monkeys,
I sat up in the garden.”</p>

<p>With a sudden impulsive gesture she put
out her little hand, and Michael took it.</p>

<p>“Thank you, Mr. Brixan,” she said. “I
have been wrong about you.”</p>

<p>“Who isn’t?” asked Mike with an
extravagant shrug.</p>

<p>She returned to her room, and this time she
closed her window. Once, before she went
finally to sleep, she rose and, peeping through
the curtains, saw the little glowing point of
the watcher’s cigar, and went back to bed
comforted, to sleep as if it were only for a few
minutes before Foss began knocking on the
doors to waken the company.</p>

<p>The literary man himself was the first down.
The garden was beginning to show palely in
the dawn light, and he bade Michael Brixan
a gruff good morning.</p>

<p>“Good morning to you,” said Michael.
“By the way, Mr. Foss, you stayed behind
at Griff Towers yesterday to see our friend
Penne?”</p>

<p>“That’s no business of yours,” growled the
man, and would have passed on, but Michael
stood squarely in his path.</p>

<p>“There is one thing which is a business of
mine, and that is to ask you why that little
white disc appears on Miss Leamington’s
window?”</p>

<p>He pointed up to the white circle that the
girl had seen the night before.</p>

<p>“I don’t know anything about it,” said
Foss with rising anger, but there was also a
note of fear in his voice.</p>

<p>“If you don’t know, who will? Because I
saw you put it there, just before it got dark
last night.”</p>

<p>“Well, if you must know,” said the man,
“it was to mark a vision boundary for the
camera-man.”</p>

<p>That sounded a plausible excuse. Michael
had seen Jack Knebworth marking out
boundaries in the garden to ensure the actors
being in the picture. At the first opportunity,
when Knebworth appeared he questioned him
on the subject.</p>

<p>“No, I gave no instructions to put up
marks. Where is it?”</p>

<p>Michael showed him.</p>

<p>“I wouldn’t have a mark up there, anyway,
should I? Right in the middle of a window!
What do you make of it?”</p>

<p>“I think Foss put it there with one object.
The window was marked at Gregory’s
request.”</p>

<p>“But why?” asked Knebworth, staring.</p>

<p>“To show Bhag Adele Leamington’s room.
That’s why,” said Michael, and he was
confident that his view was an accurate one.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
