<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1 id='ch13'>CHAPTER XIII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>THE TRAP THAT FAILED</span></h1></div>

<p>And then Michael heard a faint creak in one
corner of the room. It was followed by the
almost imperceptible sound of bare feet on
the thick pile carpet, and the noise of quick
breathing.</p>

<p>He did not hesitate. Feeling again for
the keyhole of the shutter, he pulled out his
pistol and fired twice at the lock. The sound
of the explosion was deafening in the confined
space of the room. It must have had an
electrical effect upon the intruder, for when,
with a wrench, the shutter opened, and at
a touch the white blind sprang up, flooding with
light the big, ornate room, it was empty.</p>

<p>Almost immediately afterwards the door
opened through which the baronet had passed.
If he had been panic-stricken before, his
condition was now pitiable.</p>

<p>“What’s that? What’s that?” he whimpered.
“Did somebody shoot?”</p>

<p>“Somebody shot,” said Michael calmly,
“and I was the somebody. And the gentlemen
you sent into the room to settle accounts
with me are very lucky that I confined my
firing practice to the lock of your shutter,
Penne.”</p>

<p>He saw something white on the ground, and,
crossing the room with quick strides, picked it
up. It was a scarf of coarse silk, and he
smelt it.</p>

<p>“Somebody dropped this in their hurry,” he
said. “I guess it was to be used.”</p>

<p>“My dear fellow, I assure you I didn’t
know.”</p>

<p>“How is the interesting invalid?” asked
Michael with a curl of his lip. “The lunatic
lady who screams?”</p>

<p>The man fingered his trembling lips for
a moment as though he were trying to control
them.</p>

<p>“She’s all right. It was as I—as I thought,”
he said; “she had some sort of fit.”</p>

<p>Michael eyed him pensively.</p>

<p>“I’d like to see her, if I may,” he said.</p>

<p>“You can’t.” Penne’s voice was loud,
defiant. “You can’t see anybody! What the
hell do you mean by coming into my house at
this hour of the morning and damaging my
property? I’ll have this matter reported to
Scotland Yard, and I’ll get the coat off your
back, my man! Some of you detectives think
you own the earth, but I’ll show you you
don’t!”</p>

<p>The blustering voice rose to a roar. He was
smothering his fear in weak anger, Michael
thought, and looked up at the swords above
the mantelpiece. Following the direction of
his eyes, Sir Gregory wilted, and again his
manner changed.</p>

<p>“My dear fellow, why exasperate me? I’m
the nicest man in the world if you only treat me
right. You’ve got crazy ideas about me, you
have indeed!”</p>

<p>Michael did not argue. He walked slowly
down the passage and out to meet the first
sector of a blazing sun. As he reached the
door he turned to the man.</p>

<p>“I cannot insist upon searching your house
because I have not a warrant, as you know,
and, by the time I’d got a warrant, there would
be nothing to find. But you look out, my
friend!” He waved a warning finger at the
man. “I hate dragging in classical allusions,
but I should advise you to look up a lady in
mythology who was known to the Greeks as
Adrastia!”</p>

<p>And with this he left, walking down the drive,
watched with eyes of despair by a pale-faced
girl from the upper window of the tower, whilst
Sir Gregory went back to his library and,
by much diligent searching, discovered that
Adrastia was another name for Nemesis.</p>

<p>Michael was back at the Dower House in
time for breakfast. It was no great tribute
to his charm that his absence had passed
unnoticed—or so it appeared, though Adele
had marked his disappearance, and had been
the first to note his return.</p>

<p>Jack Knebworth was in his most cheery
mood. The scenes had been, he thought, most
successful.</p>

<p>“I can’t tell, of course, until I get back
to the laboratory and develop the pictures; but
so far as young Leamington is concerned,
she’s wonderful. I hate predicting at this early
stage, but I believe that she’s going to be a
great artiste.”</p>

<p>“You didn’t expect her to be?” said Michael
in surprise.</p>

<p>Jack laughed scornfully.</p>

<p>“I was very annoyed with Mendoza, and
when I took this outfit on location, I did so
quite expecting that I should have to return and
retake the picture with Mendoza in the cast.
Film stars aren’t born, they’re made; they’re
made by bitter experience, patience and suffering.
They have got to pass through stages of
stark inefficiency, during which they’re liable
to be discarded, before they win out. Your
girl has skipped all the intervening phases, and
has won at the first time of asking.”</p>

<p>“When you talk about ’my girl,’ ” said
Michael carefully, “will you be good enough
to remember that I have the merest and most
casual interest in the lady?”</p>

<p>“If you’re not a liar,” said Jack Knebworth,
“you’re a piece of cheese!”</p>

<p>“What chance has she as a film artiste?”
asked Michael, anxious to turn the subject.</p>

<p>Knebworth ruffled his white hair.</p>

<p>“Precious little,” he said. “There isn’t a
chance for a girl in England. That’s a horrible
thing to say, but it’s true. You can count the
so-called English stars on the fingers of one
hand; they’ve only a local reputation and
they’re generally married to the producer.
What chance has an outsider got of breaking
into the movies? And even if they break in,
it’s not much good to them. Production in
this country is streets behind production either
in America or in Germany. It is even behind
the French, though the French films are nearly
the dullest in the world. The British producer
has no ideas of his own; he can adopt and
adapt the stunts, the tricks of acting, the
methods of lighting, that he sees in foreign
films at trade shows; and, with the aid of an
American camera-man, he can produce something
which might have been produced a couple
of years ago at Hollywood. It’s queer, because
England has never been left behind as she has
been in the cinema industry. France started
the motor-car industry: to-day, England makes
the finest motor-car in the world. America
started aviation: to-day, the British aeroplanes
have no superior. And yet, with all the
example before them, with all the immense
profits which are waiting to be made, in the past
twenty years England has not produced one
film star of international note, one film picture
with an international reputation.”</p>

<p>It was a subject upon which he was
prepared to enlarge, and did enlarge, throughout
the journey back to Chichester.</p>

<p>“The cinema industry is in the hands of
showmen all the world over, but in England
it is in the hands of peep-showmen, as against
the Barnums of the States. No, there’s no
chance for your little friend, not in this country.
If the picture I’m taking makes a hit in America—yes.
She’ll be playing at Hollywood in
twelve months’ time in an English story—directed
by Americans!”</p>

<p>In the outer lobby of his office he found a
visitor waiting for him, and gave her a curt and
steely good morning.</p>

<p>“I want to see you, Mr. Knebworth,” said
Stella Mendoza, with a smile at the leading
man who had followed Knebworth into his
office.</p>

<p>“You want to see me, do you? Why, you
can see me now. What do you want?”</p>

<p>She was pulling at a lace handkerchief with
a pretty air of penitence and confusion. Jack
was not impressed. He himself had taught
her all that handkerchief stuff.</p>

<p>“I’ve been very silly, Mr. Knebworth, and
I’ve come to ask your pardon. Of course, it
was wrong to keep the boys and girls waiting,
and I really am sorry. Shall I come in the
morning? Or I can start to-day?”</p>

<p>A faint smile trembled at the corner of the
director’s big mouth.</p>

<p>“You needn’t come in the morning and you
needn’t stay to-day, Stella,” he said. “Your
substitute has done remarkably well, and I
don’t feel inclined to retake the picture.”</p>

<p>She flashed an angry glance at him, a glance
at total variance with her softer attitude.</p>

<p>“I’ve got a contract: I suppose you know
that, Mr. Knebworth?” she said shrilly.</p>

<p>“I’d ever so much rather play opposite
Miss Mendoza,” murmured a gentle voice. It
was the youthful Reggie Connolly, he of the
sleek hair. “It’s not easy to play opposite
Miss—I don’t even know her name. She’s so—well,
she lacks the artistry, Mr. Knebworth.”</p>

<p>Old Jack didn’t speak. His gloomy eyes
were fixed upon the youth.</p>

<p>“What’s more, I don’t feel I can do myself
justice with Miss Mendoza out of the cast,”
said Reggie. “I really don’t! I feel most
awfully, terribly nervous, and it’s difficult to
express one’s personality when one’s awfully,
terribly nervous. In fact,” he said recklessly,
“I’m not inclined to go on with the picture
unless Miss Mendoza returns.”</p>

<p>She shot a grateful glance at him, and then
turned with a slow smile to the silent Jack.</p>

<p>“Would you like me to start to-day?”</p>

<p>“Not to-day, or any other day,” roared the
old director, his eyes flaming. “As for you,
you nut-fed chorus boy, if you try to let me
down I’ll blacklist you at every studio in this
country, and every time I meet you I’ll kick
you from hell to Halifax!”</p>

<p>He came stamping into the office, where
Michael had preceded him, a raging fury of a
man.</p>

<p>“What do you think of that?” he asked
when he had calmed down. “That’s the sort
of stuff they try to get past you! He’s going
to quit in the middle of a picture! Did you
hear him? That cissy-boy! That mouse!
Say, Brixan, would you like to play opposite
this girl of mine? You can’t be worse than
Connolly, and it would fill in your time whilst
you’re looking for the Head-Hunter.”</p>

<p>Michael shook his head slowly.</p>

<p>“No, thank you,” he said. “That is not my
job. And as for the Head-Hunter”—he lit a
cigarette and sent a ring of smoke to the ceiling—“I
know who he is and I can lay my hands
on him just when I want.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
