<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1 id='ch3'>CHAPTER III<br/> <span class='sub-head'>THE NIECE</span></h1></div>

<p>Adele Leamington occupied a small room in
a small house, and there were moments when
she wished it were smaller, that she might be
justified in plucking up her courage to ask
from the stout and unbending Mrs. Watson,
her landlady, a reduction of rent. The extras
on Jack Knebworth’s lot were well paid but
infrequently employed; for Jack was one of
those clever directors who specialized in
domestic stories.</p>

<p>She was dressing when Mrs. Watson brought
in her morning cup of tea.</p>

<p>“There’s a young fellow been hanging round
outside since I got up,” said Mrs. Watson.
“I saw him when I took in the milk. Very
polite he was, but I told him you weren’t
awake.”</p>

<p>“Did he want to see me?” asked the
astonished girl.</p>

<p>“That’s what he said,” said Mrs. Watson
grimly. “I asked him if he came from
Knebworth, and he said no. If you want to
see him, you can have the use of the parlour,
though I don’t like young men calling on young
girls. I’ve never let theatrical lodgings before,
and you can’t be too careful. I’ve always
had a name for respectability and I want to
keep it.”</p>

<p>Adele smiled.</p>

<p>“I cannot imagine anything more respectable
than an early morning caller, Mrs. Watson,”
she said.</p>

<p>She went downstairs and opened the door.
The young man was standing on the side-walk
with his back to her, but at the sound of the
door opening he turned. He was good-looking
and well-dressed, and his smile was quick and
appealing.</p>

<p>“I hope your landlady did not bother to
wake you up? I could have waited. You are
Miss Adele Leamington, aren’t you?”</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>“Will you come in, please?” she asked, and
took him into the stuffy little front parlour, and,
closing the door behind her, waited.</p>

<p>“I am a reporter,” he said untruthfully, and
her face fell.</p>

<p>“You’ve come about Uncle Francis? Is
anything really wrong? They sent a detective
to see me a week ago. Have they found him?”</p>

<p>“No, they haven’t found him,” he said
carefully. “You knew him very well, of
course, Miss Leamington?”</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>“No, I have only seen him twice in my life.
My dear father and he quarrelled before I was
born, and I only saw him once after daddy
died, and once before mother was taken with
her fatal illness.”</p>

<p>She heard him sigh, and sensed his relief,
though why he should be relieved that her
uncle was almost a stranger to her, she could
not fathom.</p>

<p>“You saw him at Chichester, though?” he
said.</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>“Yes, I saw him. I was on my way to
Goodwood Park—a whole party of us in a
char-à-banc—and I saw him for a moment
walking along the side-walk. He looked
desperately ill and worried. He was just
coming out of a stationer’s shop when I saw
him; he had a newspaper under his arm and
a letter in his hand.”</p>

<p>“Where was the store?” he asked quickly.</p>

<p>She gave him the address, and he jotted it
down.</p>

<p>“You didn’t see him again?”</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>“Is anything really very badly wrong?” she
asked anxiously. “I’ve often heard mother
say that Uncle Francis was very extravagant,
and a little unscrupulous. Has he been in
trouble?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” admitted Michael, “he has been in
trouble, but nothing that you need worry about.
You’re a great film actress, aren’t you?”</p>

<p>In spite of her anxiety she laughed.</p>

<p>“The only chance I have of being a great
film actress is for you to say so in your paper.”</p>

<p>“My what?” he asked, momentarily puzzled.
“Oh yes, my newspaper, of course!”</p>

<p>“I don’t believe you’re a reporter at all,”
she said with sudden suspicion.</p>

<p>“Indeed I am,” he said glibly, and dared to
pronounce the name of that widely-circulated
sheet upon which the sun seldom sets.</p>

<p>“Though I’m not a great actress, and fear
I never shall be, I like to believe it is because
I’ve never had a chance—I’ve a horrible
suspicion that Mr. Knebworth knows instinctively
that I am no good.”</p>

<p>Mike Brixan had found a new interest in the
case, an interest which, he was honest enough
to confess to himself, was not dissociated from
the niece of Francis Elmer. He had never
met anybody quite so pretty and quite so
unsophisticated and natural.</p>

<p>“You’re going to the studio, I suppose?”</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>“I wonder if Mr. Knebworth would mind
my calling to see you?”</p>

<p>She hesitated.</p>

<p>“Mr. Knebworth doesn’t like callers.”</p>

<p>“Then maybe I’ll call on him,” said Michael,
nodding. “It doesn’t matter whom I call on,
does it?”</p>

<p>“It certainly doesn’t matter to me,” said the
girl coldly.</p>

<p>“In the vulgar language of the masses,”
thought Mike as he strode down the street, “I
have had the bird!”</p>

<p>His inquiries did not occupy very much of his
time. He found the little news shop, and the
proprietor, by good fortune, remembered the
coming of Mr. Francis Elmer.</p>

<p>“He came for a letter, though it wasn’t
addressed to Elmer,” said the shopkeeper.
“A lot of people have their letters addressed
here. I make a little extra money that way.”</p>

<p>“Did he buy a newspaper?”</p>

<p>“No, sir, he did not buy a newspaper;
he had one under his arm—the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Morning
Telegram</i>. I remember that, because I
noticed that he’d put a blue pencil mark
round one of the agony advertisements on the
front page, and I was wondering what it was
all about. I kept a copy of that day’s
<i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Morning Telegram</i>: I’ve got it now.”</p>

<p>He went into the little parlour at the back
of the shop and returned with a dingy newspaper,
which he laid on the counter.</p>

<p>“There are six there, but I don’t know which
one it was.”</p>

<p>Michael examined the agony advertisements.
There was one frantic message from a mother
to her son, asking him to return and saying
that “all would be forgiven.” There was a
cryptogram message, which he had not time to
decipher. A third, which was obviously the
notice of an assignation. The fourth was a
thinly veiled advertisement for a new hair-waver,
and at the fifth he stopped. It ran:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>“Troubled.&nbsp;&nbsp;Final directions at address I</p>
<p class='line'>gave you.&nbsp;&nbsp;Courage.&nbsp;&nbsp;Benefactor.”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>“Some ‘benefactor,’ ” said Mike Brixan.
“What was he like—the man who called?
Was he worried?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir: he looked upset—all distracted
like. He seemed like a chap who’d lost his
head.”</p>

<p>“That seems a fair description,” said Mike.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
