<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX: Bhag‚Äôs Return</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Bhag‚Äôs Return</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The girl screamed and gripped Michael‚Äôs arm.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat is that?‚Äù she asked. ‚ÄúIs it the Thing that came to my‚ÅÝ‚Äîmy room?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael put her aside gently, and ran toward the tower. As he did so, Bhag took a leap and dropped on the ground. For a moment he stood, his knuckles on the ground, his malignant face turned in the direction of the man. And then he sniffed, and, with that queer twittering noise of his, went ambling across the downs and disappeared over a nearby crest.</p>
			<p>Michael raced in pursuit. By the time he came into view, the great ape was a quarter of a mile away, running at top speed, and always keeping close to the hedges that divided the fields he had to cross. Pursuit was useless, and the detective went slowly back to the alarmed company.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is only an orangutan belonging to Sir Gregory, and perfectly harmless,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúHe has been missing from the house for two or three days.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe must have been hiding in the tower,‚Äù said Knebworth, and Michael nodded. ‚ÄúWell, I‚Äôm darned glad he didn‚Äôt choose to come out at the moment I was shooting,‚Äù said the director, mopping his forehead. ‚ÄúYou didn‚Äôt see anything of him, Adele?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael guessed that the girl was pale under her yellow makeup, and the hand she raised to her lips shook a little.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat explains the mystery of the handcuffs,‚Äù said Knebworth.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you notice them?‚Äù asked Michael quickly. ‚ÄúYes, that explains the broken link,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúbut it doesn‚Äôt exactly explain the butyl chloride.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He held the girl‚Äôs arm as he spoke, and in the warm, strong pressure she felt something more than his sympathy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWere you a little frightened?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was badly frightened,‚Äù she confessed. ‚ÄúHow terrible! Was that Bhag?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He nodded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat was Bhag,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI suppose he‚Äôs been hiding in the tower ever since his disappearance. You saw nothing when you were on the top of the wall?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm glad to say I didn‚Äôt, or I should have dropped. There are a large number of bushes where he might have been hidden.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael decided to look for himself. They put up the ladder and he climbed to the broad top of the tower and looked down. At the base of the stonework the ground sloped away in a manner curiously reminiscent of the shell-holes he had seen during the war in France. The actual floor of the tower was not visible under the hawthorn bushes which grew thickly at the centre. He caught a glimpse of the jagged edges of rock, the distorted branches of an old tree, and that was all.</p>
			<p>There was ample opportunity for concealment. Possibly Bhag had hidden there most of the time, sleeping off the effects of his labour and his wounds; for Michael had seen something that nobody else had noticed‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe gashed skin, and the ear that had been slashed in half.</p>
			<p>He came down the ladder again and rejoined Knebworth.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think that finishes our work for today,‚Äù said Jack dubiously. ‚ÄúI smell hysteria, and it will be a long time before I can get the girls to come up for a night picture.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael drove the director back in his car, and all the way home he was considering this strange appearance of the ape. Somebody had handcuffed Bhag: he ought to have guessed that when he saw the torn link. No human being could have broken those apart. And Bhag had escaped‚ÅÝ‚Äîfrom whom? How? And why had he not returned to Griff Towers and to his master?</p>
			<p>When he had dropped the director at the studio he went straight on to Gregory‚Äôs house, and found the baronet playing clock-golf on a strip of lawn that ran by the side of the house. The man was still heavily bandaged, but he was making good recovery.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, Bhag is back. He returned half an hour ago. Where he has been, heaven knows! I‚Äôve often wished that chap could talk, but I‚Äôve never wished it so much as I do at this moment. Somebody had put irons on him: I‚Äôve just taken them off.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCan I see them?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou knew it, did you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI saw him. He came out of the old tower on the hill.‚Äù Michael pointed; from where they stood, the tower was in sight.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs that so? And what the devil was he doing there?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Gregory scratched his chin thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs been away before, but mostly he goes to a shoot of mine about three miles away, where there‚Äôs plenty of cover and no intruders. I discovered that when a poacher saw him, and, like a fool, shot at him‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat poacher was a lucky man to escape with his life. Have you found the body of Foss?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The baronet had resumed his playing, and was looking at the ball at his feet.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù said Michael quietly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúExpect to find it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI shouldn‚Äôt be surprised.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Gregory stood, his hands leaning on his club, looking across the wold.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs the law in this country, suppose a man accidentally kills a servant who tried to knife him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe would have to stand his trial,‚Äù said Michael, ‚Äúand a verdict of ‚Äòjustifiable homicide‚Äô would be returned and he would be set free.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut suppose he didn‚Äôt reveal it? Suppose he‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, did away with the body‚ÅÝ‚Äîburied it‚ÅÝ‚Äîand let the matter slide?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen he would place himself in a remarkably dangerous position,‚Äù said Michael. ‚ÄúParticularly‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe watched the man closely‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúif a woman friend, who is no longer a woman friend, happened to be a witness or had knowledge of the act.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Gregory Penne‚Äôs one visible eye blinked quickly, and he went that curious purple colour which Michael had seen before when he was agitated.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSuppose she tried to get money out of him by threatening to tell the police?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen,‚Äù said the patient Michael, ‚Äúshe would go to prison for blackmail, and possibly as an accessory to or after the fact.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWould she?‚Äù Sir Gregory‚Äôs voice was eager. ‚ÄúShe would be an accessory if she saw‚ÅÝ‚Äîhim cut the man down? Mind you, this happened years ago. There‚Äôs a Statute of Limitations, isn‚Äôt there?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot for murder,‚Äù said Michael.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMurder! Would you call that murder?‚Äù asked the other in alarm. ‚ÄúIn self-defence? Rot!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Things were gradually being made light to Michael. Once Stella Mendoza had called the man a murderer, and Michael‚Äôs nimble mind, which could reconstruct the scene with almost unerring precision, began to grow active. A servant, a coloured man, probably, one of his Malayan slaves, had run amok, and Penne had killed him‚ÅÝ‚Äîpossibly in self-defence‚ÅÝ‚Äîand then had grown frightened of the consequences. He remembered Stella‚Äôs description‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúPenne is a bluffer and a coward at heart.‚Äù That was the story in a nutshell.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere did you bury your unfortunate victim?‚Äù he asked coolly, and the man started.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBury? What do you mean?‚Äù he blustered. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt murder or bury anybody. I was merely putting a hypothetical case to you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt sounded more real than hypothesis,‚Äù said Michael, ‚Äúbut I won‚Äôt press the question.‚Äù</p>
			<p>In truth, crimes of this character bored Michael Brixan; and, but for the unusual and curious circumstances of the Headhunter‚Äôs villainies, he would have dropped the case almost as soon as he came on to it.</p>
			<p>There was yet another attraction, which he did not name, even to himself. As for Sir Gregory Penne, the grossness of the man and his hobbies, the sordid vulgarity of his amours, were more than a little sickening. He would gladly have cut Sir Gregory out of life, only‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was not yet sure.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is very curious how these questions crop up,‚Äù Penne was saying, as he came out of his reverie. ‚ÄúA chap like myself, who doesn‚Äôt have much to occupy his mind, gets on an abstract problem of that kind and never leaves it. So she‚Äôd be an accessory after the fact, would she? That would mean penal servitude.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He seemed to derive a great deal of satisfaction from this thought, and was almost amiable by the time Michael parted from him, after an examination of the broken handcuffs. They were British and of an old pattern.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs Bhag hurt very much?‚Äù asked Michael as he put them down.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot very much; he‚Äôs got a cut or two,‚Äù said the other calmly. He made no attempt to disguise the happenings of that night. ‚ÄúHe came to my assistance, poor brute! This fellow nearly got him. In fact, poor old Bhag was knocked out, but went after them like a brick.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat hat was that man wearing‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe brown man?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúKeji? I don‚Äôt know. I suppose he wore a hat, but I didn‚Äôt notice it. Why?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was merely asking,‚Äù said Michael carelessly. ‚ÄúPerhaps he lost it in the caves.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He watched the other narrowly as he spoke.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCaves? I‚Äôve never heard about those. What are they? Are there any caves near by?‚Äù asked Sir Gregory innocently. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve a wonderful grip of the topography of the county, Brixan. I‚Äôve been living here off and on for twenty years, and I lose myself every time I go into Chichester!‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
