<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1 id='ch34'>CHAPTER XXXIV<br/> <span class='sub-head'>THE SEARCH</span></h1></div>

<p>“Yes, it’s me,” said Michael bitterly. “All
right, officer, you needn’t wait. Jack, I’ll
come up to the house to get this make-up off.”</p>

<p>“For the Lord’s sake!” breathed Knebworth,
staring at the detective. “I’ve never
seen a man made up so well that he deceived
me.”</p>

<p>“I’ve deceived everybody, including myself,”
said Michael savagely. “I thought I’d
caught him with a dummy letter, instead of
which the devil caught me.”</p>

<p>“What was it?”</p>

<p>“Ammonia, I think—a concentrated solution
thereof,” said Michael.</p>

<p>It was twenty minutes before he emerged
from the bathroom, his eyes inflamed but
otherwise his old self.</p>

<p>“I wanted to trap him in my own way, but
he was too smart for me.”</p>

<p>“Do you know who he is?”</p>

<p>Michael nodded.</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, I know,” he said. “I’ve got a
special force of men here, waiting to effect the
arrest, but I didn’t want a fuss, and I certainly
did not want bloodshed. And bloodshed
there will be, unless I am mistaken.”</p>

<p>“I didn’t seem to recognize the car, and I
know most of the machines in this city,” said
Jack.</p>

<p>“It is a new one, used only for these
midnight adventures of the Head-Hunter.
He probably garages it away from his house.
You asked me if I’d have something to eat
just now, and I lied and told you I was living
on the fat of the land. Give me some food,
for the love of heaven!”</p>

<p>Jack went into the larder and brought out
some cold meat, brewed a pot of coffee, and
sat in silence, watching the famished detective
dispose of the viands.</p>

<p>“I feel a man now,” said Michael as he
finished, “for I’d had nothing to eat except
a biscuit since eleven this morning. By the
way, our friend Stella Mendoza is staying at
Griff Towers, and I’m afraid I rather scared
her. I happened to be nosing round there an
hour ago, to make absolutely sure of my bird,
and I looked in upon her—to her alarm!”</p>

<p>There came a sharp rap at the door, and
Jack Knebworth looked up.</p>

<p>“Who’s that at this time of night?” he
asked.</p>

<p>“Probably the policeman,” said Michael.</p>

<p>Knebworth opened the door and found
a short, stout, middle-aged woman standing on
the doorstep with a roll of paper in her hand.</p>

<p>“Is this Mr. Knebworth’s?” she asked.</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Jack.</p>

<p>“I’ve brought the play that Miss Leamington
left behind. She asked me to bring it to
you.”</p>

<p>Knebworth took the roll of paper and
slipped off the elastic band which encircled it.
It was the manuscript of “Roselle.”</p>

<p>“Why have you brought this?” he asked.</p>

<p>“She told me to bring it up if I found it.”</p>

<p>“Very good,” said Jack, mystified. “Thank
you very much.”</p>

<p>He closed the door on the woman and went
back to the dining-room.</p>

<p>“Adele has sent up her script. What’s
wrong, I wonder?”</p>

<p>“Who brought it?” asked Michael,
interested.</p>

<p>“Her landlady, I suppose,” said Jack,
describing the woman.</p>

<p>“Yes, that’s she. Adele is not turning in
her part?”</p>

<p>Jack shook his head.</p>

<p>“That wouldn’t be likely.”</p>

<p>Michael was puzzled.</p>

<p>“What the dickens does it mean? What
did the woman say?”</p>

<p>“She said that Miss Leamington wanted
her to bring up the manuscript if she found it.”</p>

<p>Michael was out of the house in a second,
and, racing down the street, overtook the
woman.</p>

<p>“Will you come back, please?” he said,
and escorted her to the house again. “Just
tell Mr. Knebworth why Miss Leamington
sent this manuscript, and what you mean by
having ‘forgotten’ it.”</p>

<p>“Why, when she came up to you——”
began the woman.</p>

<p>“Came up to me?” cried Knebworth
quickly.</p>

<p>“A gentleman from the studio called for
her, and said you wanted to see her,” said the
landlady. “Miss Leamington was just going
to bed, but I took up the message. He said
you wanted to see her about the play, and
asked her to bring the manuscript. She had
mislaid it somewhere and was in a great state
about it, so I told her to go on, as you were in
a hurry, and I’d bring it up. At least, she
asked me to do that.”</p>

<p>“What sort of a gentleman was it who
called?”</p>

<p>“A rather stout gentleman. He wasn’t
exactly a gentleman, he was a chauffeur. As
a matter of fact, I thought he’d been drinking,
though I didn’t want to alarm Miss
Leamington by telling her so.”</p>

<p>“And then what happened?” asked Michael
quickly.</p>

<p>“She came down and got in the car. The
chauffeur was already in.”</p>

<p>“A closed car, I suppose?”</p>

<p>The woman nodded.</p>

<p>“And then they drove off? What time was
this?”</p>

<p>“Just after half-past ten. I remember,
because I heard the church clock strike just
before the car drove up.”</p>

<p>Michael was cool now. His voice scarcely
rose above a whisper.</p>

<p>“Twenty-five past eleven,” he said, looking
at his watch. “You’ve been a long time
coming.”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t find the paper, sir. It was
under Miss Leamington’s pillow. Isn’t she
here?”</p>

<p>“No, she’s not here,” said Michael quietly.
“Thank you very much; I won’t keep you.
Will you wait for me at the police station?”</p>

<p>He went upstairs and put on his coat.</p>

<p>“Where do you think she is?” asked Jack.</p>

<p>“She is at Griff Towers,” replied the other,
“and whether Gregory Penne lives or dies this
night depends entirely upon the treatment that
Adele has received at his hands.”</p>

<p>At the police station he found the landlady,
a little frightened, more than a little tearful.</p>

<p>“What was Miss Leamington wearing when
she went out?”</p>

<p>“Her blue cloak, sir,” whimpered the
woman, “that pretty blue cloak she always
wore.”</p>

<p>Scotland Yard men were at the station, and
it was a heavily loaded car that ran out to
Chichester—too heavy for Michael, in a fever
of impatience, for the weight of its human
cargo checked its speed, and every second was
precious. At last, after an eternity of time,
the big car swung into the drive. Michael
did not stop to waken the lodge-keeper, but
smashed the frail gates open with the buffers
of his machine, mounted the slope, crossing
the gravel parade, and halted.</p>

<p>There was no need to ring the bell: the door
was wide open, and, at the head of his party,
Mike Brixan dashed through the deserted hall,
along the corridor into Gregory’s library.
One light burnt, offering a feeble illumination,
but the room was empty. With rapid strides
he crossed to the desk and turned the switch.
Bhag’s den opened, but Bhag too was an
absentee.</p>

<p>He pressed the bell by the side of the
fireplace, and almost immediately the brown-faced
servitor whom he had seen before came
trembling into the room.</p>

<p>“Where is your master?” asked Michael in
Dutch.</p>

<p>The man shook his head.</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” he replied, but instinctively
he looked up to the ceiling.</p>

<p>“Show me the way.”</p>

<p>They went back to the hall, up the broad
stairway on to the first floor. Along a corridor,
hung with swords, as was its fellow below, he
reached another open door—the great dance
hall where Gregory Penne had held revel that
evening. There was nobody in sight, and
Michael came out into the hall. As he did so,
he was aware of a frantic tapping at one of
the doors in the corridor. The key was in the
lock: he turned it and flung the door wide
open, and Stella Mendoza, white as death,
staggered out.</p>

<p>“Where is Adele?” she gasped.</p>

<p>“I want to ask you that,” said Michael
sternly. “Where is she?”</p>

<p>The girl shook her head helplessly, strove
to speak, and then collapsed in a swoon.</p>

<p>He did not wait for her to recover, but
continued his search. From room to room he
went, but there was no sign of Adele or the
brutal owner of Griff Towers. He searched the
library again, and passed through into the little
drawing-room, where a table was laid for two.
The cloth was wet with spilt wine; one glass
was half empty—but the two for whom the
table was laid had vanished. They must have
gone out of the front door—whither?</p>

<p>He was standing tense, his mind concentrated
upon a problem that was more vital
to him than life itself, when he heard a sound
that came from the direction of Bhag’s den.
And then there appeared in the doorway the
monstrous ape himself. He was bleeding
from a wound in the shoulder; the blood fell
drip-drip-drip as he stood, clutching in his two
great hands something that seemed like a
bundle of rags. As Michael looked, the room
rocked before his eyes.</p>

<p>The tattered, stained garment that Bhag
held was the cloak that Adele Leamington had
worn!</p>

<p>For a second Bhag glared at the man who
he knew was his enemy, and then, dropping
the cloak, he shrank back toward his quarters,
his teeth bared.</p>

<p>Three times Michael’s automatic spat, and
the great, man-like thing disappeared in a flash—and
the door closed with a click.</p>

<p>Knebworth had been a witness of the scene.
It was he who ran forward and picked up the
cloak that the ape had dropped.</p>

<p>“Yes, that was hers,” he said huskily, and a
horrible thought chilled him.</p>

<p>Michael had opened the door of the den,
and, pistol in hand, dashed through the
opening. Knebworth dared not follow. He
stood petrified, waiting, and then Michael
reappeared.</p>

<p>“There’s nothing here,” he said.</p>

<p>“Nothing?” asked Jack Knebworth in a
whisper. “Thank God!”</p>

<p>“Bhag has gone—I think I may have hit
him; there is a trail of blood, but I may not
be responsible for that. He had been shot
recently,” he pointed to stains on the floor.
“He wasn’t shot when I saw him last.”</p>

<p>“Have you seen him before to-night?”</p>

<p>Michael nodded.</p>

<p>“For three nights he has been haunting
Longvale’s house.”</p>

<p>“Longvale’s!”</p>

<p>Where was Adele? That was the one
dominant question, the one thought uppermost
in Michael Brixan’s mind. And where was the
baronet? What was the meaning of that open
door? None of the servants could tell him,
and for some reason he saw that they were
speaking the truth. Only Penne and the girl—and
this great ape—knew, unless——</p>

<p>He hurried back to where he had left a
detective trying to revive the unconscious
Stella Mendoza.</p>

<p>“She has passed from one fainting fit to
another,” said the officer. “I can get nothing
out of her except that once she said ‘Kill him,
Adele.’ ”</p>

<p>“Then she has seen her!” said Michael.</p>

<p>One of the officers he had left outside to
watch the building had a report to make. He
had seen a dark figure climbing the wall and
disappear apparently through the solid brickwork.
A few minutes later it had come out
again.</p>

<p>“That was Bhag,” said Michael. “I knew
he was not here when we arrived. He must
have come in through the opening while we
were upstairs.”</p>

<p>The car that had carried Adele had been
found. It was Stella’s, and at first Michael
suspected that the girl was a party to the
abduction. He learnt afterwards that, whilst
the woman’s chauffeur had been in the kitchen,
virtually a prisoner, Penne himself had driven
the car to the girl’s house, and it was the
sight of the machine, which she knew belonged
to Stella, that had lulled any suspicions she
may have had.</p>

<p>Michael was in a condition bordering upon
frenzy. The Head-Hunter and his capture
was insignificant compared with the safety of
the girl.</p>

<p>“If I don’t find her I shall go mad,” he
said.</p>

<p>Jack Knebworth had opened his lips to
answer when there came a startling interruption.
Borne on the still night air came a
scream of agony which turned the director’s
blood to ice.</p>

<p>“Help, help!”</p>

<p>Shrill as was the cry, Michael knew that
it was the voice of a man, and knew that that
man was Gregory Penne!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
