<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1 id='ch6'>CHAPTER VI<br/> <span class='sub-head'>THE MASTER OF GRIFF</span></h1></div>

<p>Adele did not speak to him for a long time.
Resentment that he should force his company
upon her, and nervousness at the coming
ordeal—a nervousness which became sheer
panic as they grew nearer and nearer to their
destination—made conversation impossible.</p>

<p>“I see your Mr. Lawley Foss is with us,”
said Michael, glancing over his shoulder, and
by way of making conversation.</p>

<p>“He always goes on location,” she said
shortly. “A story has sometimes to be
amended while it’s being shot.”</p>

<p>“Where are we going now?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Griff Towers first,” she replied. She
found it difficult to be uncivil to anybody.
“It is a big place owned by Sir Gregory
Penne.”</p>

<p>“But I thought we were going to the Dower
House?”</p>

<p>She looked at him with a little frown.</p>

<p>“Why did you ask if you knew?” she
demanded, almost in a tone of asperity.</p>

<p>“Because I like to hear you speak,” said
the young man calmly. “Sir Gregory Penne?
I seem to know the name.”</p>

<p>She did not answer.</p>

<p>“He was in Borneo for many years, wasn’t
he?”</p>

<p>“He’s hateful,” she said vehemently. “I
detest him!”</p>

<p>She did not explain the cause of her
detestation, and Michael thought it discreet
not to press the question, but presently she
relieved him of responsibility.</p>

<p>“I’ve been to his house twice. He has a
very fine garden, which Mr. Knebworth has
used before—of course, I only went as an
extra and was very much in the background.
I wish I had been more so. He has queer
ideas about women, and especially actresses—not
that I’m an actress,” she added hastily,
“but I mean people who play for a living.
Thank heaven there’s only one scene to be
shot at Griff, and perhaps he will not be at
home, but that’s unlikely. He’s always there
when I go.”</p>

<p>Michael glanced at her out of the corner of
his eye. His first impression of her beauty
was more than confirmed. There was a
certain wistfulness in her face which was very
appealing; an honesty in the dark eyes that
told him all he wanted to know about her
attitude toward the admiration of the unknown
Sir Gregory.</p>

<p>“It’s queer how all baronets are villains in
stories,” he said, “and queerer still that most
of the baronets I’ve known have been men of
singular morals. I’m bothering you, being
here, aren’t I?” he asked, dropping his tone
of banter.</p>

<p>She looked round at him.</p>

<p>“You are a little,” she said frankly. “You
see, Mr. Brixan, this is my big chance. It’s
a chance that really never comes to an extra
except in stories, and I’m frightened to death
of what is going to happen. You make me
nervous, but what makes me more panic-stricken
is that the first scene is to be shot at
Griff. I hate it, I hate it!” she said almost
savagely. “That big, hard-looking house,
with its hideous stuffed tigers and its awful
looking swords——”</p>

<p>“Swords?” he asked quickly. “What do
you mean?”</p>

<p>“The walls are covered with them—Eastern
swords. They make me shiver to
see them. But Sir Gregory takes a delight in
them: he told Mr. Knebworth, the last time
we were there, that the swords were as sharp
now as they were when they came from the
hands of their makers, and some of them were
three hundred years old. He’s an extraordinary
man: he can cut an apple in half on
your hand and never so much as scratch you.
That is one of his favourite stunts—do you
know what ‘stunt’ means?”</p>

<p>“I seem to have heard the expression,” said
Michael absently.</p>

<p>“There is the house,” she pointed. “Ugh!
It makes me shiver.”</p>

<p>Griff Towers was one of those bleak looking
buildings that it had been the delight of the
early Victorian architects to erect. Its one
grey tower, placed on the left wing, gave it
a lopsided appearance, but even this distortion
did not distract attention from its rectangular
unloveliness. The place seemed all the more
bare, since the walls were innocent of greenery,
and it stood starkly in the midst of a yellow
expanse of gravel.</p>

<p>“Looks almost like a barracks,” said
Michael, “with a parade ground in front!”</p>

<p>They passed through the lodge gates, and
the char-à-banc stopped half-way up the drive.
The gardens apparently were in the rear of
the building, and certainly there was nothing
that would attract the most careless of
directors in its uninteresting façade.</p>

<p>Michael got down from his seat and found
Jack Knebworth already superintending the
unloading of a camera and reflectors.
Behind the char-à-banc came the big dynamo
lorry, with three sun arcs that were to enhance
the value of daylight.</p>

<p>“Oh, you’re here, are you?” growled Jack.
“Now you’ll oblige me, Mr. Brixan, by not
getting in the way? I’ve got a hard morning’s
work ahead of me.”</p>

<p>“I want you to take me on as a—what is
the word?—extra,” said Michael.</p>

<p>The old man frowned at him.</p>

<p>“Say, what’s the great idea?” he asked
suspiciously.</p>

<p>“I have an excellent reason, and I promise
you that nothing I do will in any way
embarrass you. The truth is, Mr. Knebworth,
I want to be around for the remainder of the
day, and I need an excuse.”</p>

<p>Jack Knebworth bit his lip, scratched his
long chin, scowled, and then:</p>

<p>“All right,” he said gruffly. “Maybe
you’ll come in handy, though I’ll have quite
enough bother directing one amateur, and if
you get into the pictures on this trip you’re
going to be lucky!”</p>

<p>There was a man of the party, a tall young
man whose hair was brushed back from his
forehead, and was so tidy and well arranged
that it seemed as if it had originally been
stuck by glue and varnished over. A tall,
somewhat good-looking boy, who had sat on
Adele’s left throughout the journey and had
not spoken once, he raised his eyebrows at
the appearance of Michael, and, strolling
across to the harassed Knebworth, his hands
in his pockets, he asked with a hurt air:</p>

<p>“I say, Mr. Knebworth, who is this
johnny?”</p>

<p>“Which johnny?” growled old Jack.
“You mean Brixan? He’s an extra.”</p>

<p>“Oh, an extra, is he?” said the young man.
“I say, it’s pretty desperately awful when
extras hobnob with principals! And this
Leamington girl—she’s simply going to mess
up the pictures, she is, by Jove!”</p>

<p>“Is she, by Jove?” snarled Knebworth.
“Now see here, Mr. Connolly, I ain’t so much
in love with your work that I’m willing to
admit in advance that even an extra is going
to mess up this picture.”</p>

<p>“I’ve never played opposite to an extra in
my life, dash it all!”</p>

<p>“Then you must have felt lonely,” grunted
Jack, busy with his unpacking.</p>

<p>“Now, Mendoza is an artiste——” began
the youthful leading man, and Jack Knebworth
straightened his back.</p>

<p>“Get over there till you’re wanted, you!”
he roared. “When I need advice from pretty
boys, I’ll come to you—see? For the moment
you’re <i xml:lang="fr">de trop</i>, which is a French expression
meaning that you’re standing on ground there’s
a better use for.”</p>

<p>The disgruntled Reggie Connolly strolled
away with a shrug of his thin shoulders, which
indicated not only his conviction that the picture
would fail, but that the responsibility was everywhere
but under his hat.</p>

<p>From the big doorway of Griff Towers, Sir
Gregory Penne was watching the assembly of
the company. He was a thick-set man, and the
sun of Borneo and an unrestricted appetite had
dyed his skin a colour which was between purple
and brown. His face was covered with innumerable
ridges, his eyes looked forth upon
the world through two narrow slits. The
rounded feminine chin seemed to be the only
part of his face that sunshine and stronger
stimulants had left in its natural condition.</p>

<p>Michael watched him as he strolled down the
slope to where they were standing, guessing his
identity. He wore a golf suit of a loud check
in which red predominated, and a big cap
of the same material was pulled down over
his eyes. Taking the stub of a cigar from
his teeth, with a quick and characteristic
gesture he wiped his scanty moustache on
his knuckles.</p>

<p>“Good morning, Knebworth,” he called.</p>

<p>His voice was harsh and cruel; a voice that
had never been mellowed by laughter or made
soft by the tendernesses of humanity.</p>

<p>“Good morning, Sir Gregory.”</p>

<p>Old Knebworth disentangled himself from
his company.</p>

<p>“Sorry I’m late.”</p>

<p>“Don’t apologize,” said the other. “Only
I thought you were going to shoot earlier.
Brought my little girl, eh?”</p>

<p>“Your little girl?” Jack looked at him,
frankly nonplussed. “You mean Mendoza?
No, she’s not coming.”</p>

<p>“I don’t mean Mendoza, if that’s the dark
girl. Never mind: I was only joking.”</p>

<p>Who the blazes was his little girl, thought
Jack, who was ignorant of two unhappy experiences
which an unconsidered extra girl had had
on previous visits. The mystery, however,
was soon cleared up, for the baronet walked
slowly to where Adele Leamington was making
a pretence of studying her script.</p>

<p>“Good morning, little lady,” he said,
lifting his cap an eighth of an inch from his
head.</p>

<p>“Good morning, Sir Gregory,” she said
coldly.</p>

<p>“You didn’t keep your promise.” He shook
his head waggishly. “Oh, woman, woman!”</p>

<p>“I don’t remember having made a promise,”
said the girl quietly. “You asked me to come
to dinner with you, and I told you that that was
impossible.”</p>

<p>“I promised to send my car for you. Don’t
say it was too far away. Never mind, never
mind.” And, to Michael’s wrath, he squeezed
the girl’s arm in a manner which was intended
to be paternal, but which filled the girl with
indignant loathing.</p>

<p>She wrenched her arm free, and, turning her
back upon her tormentor, almost flew to Jack
Knebworth with an incoherent demand for
information on the reading of a line which was
perfectly simple.</p>

<p>Old Jack was no fool. He watched the play
from under his eyelids, recognizing all the
symptoms.</p>

<p>“This is the last time we shall shoot at Griff
Towers,” he told himself.</p>

<p>For Jack Knebworth was something of a
stickler on behaviour, and had views on women
which were diametrically opposite to those held
by Sir Gregory Penne.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
